README.md, before:

# 🗨️ Plural Chat

A desktop chat application designed specifically for plural systems, featuring PluralKit integration and intelligent proxy detection.

## 📑 Table of Contents

- [✨ Features](#-features)
- [📸 Screenshots](#-screenshots)
- [⚠️ Known Issues](#️-known-issues)
- [📋 Project Documentation](#-project-documentation)
- [🚀 Quick Start](#-quick-start)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [First Time Setup](#first-time-setup)
- [🎯 Proxy Detection](#-proxy-detection)
- [🔧 PluralKit Integration](#-pluralkit-integration)
  - [API Token Setup](#api-token-setup)
  - [What Gets Imported](#what-gets-imported)
- [📁 File Structure](#-file-structure)
- [🎨 Themes](#-themes)
- [📤 Sharing Systems](#-sharing-systems)
- [🛠️ Development](#️-development)
  - [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
  - [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [🤝 Contributing](#-contributing)
- [📄 License](#-license)
- [💝 Credits](#-credits)
- [🔗 Links](#-links)

## ✨ Features

- **🏠 Local Desktop Chat** - Private conversations between system members
- **🔗 PluralKit Integration** - Import members, avatars, and proxy tags from your PK system
- **🎯 Smart Proxy Detection** - Automatic member switching based on proxy patterns
- **💾 SQLite Database** - Fast, reliable local storage
- **🎨 Modern Themes** - 15+ beautiful themes via ttkbootstrap
- **📤 Export/Import** - Share system configurations with other plural folks
- **🖼️ Avatar Support** - Display member avatars in chat
- **📔 Personal Diary** - Private journal system for individual members
- **⚙️ Advanced Settings** - Configurable cache sizes to optimize performance based on system resources
- **🛡️ Enhanced Security** - Improved URL validation and secure file handling
- **🔄 Improved Stability** - Better error handling and retry mechanisms for network operations
- **📱 Cross-Platform Support** - Optimized for macOS, Windows, and Linux including better UI responsiveness

## 📸 Screenshots

| Main Chat Interface | Settings & Custom Themes | Personal Diary System |
| :-----------------: | :----------------------: | :-------------------: |
| <img src="screenshots/main_interface.png" alt="Main chat interface with member list and conversation history" width="250"> | <img src="screenshots/settings_themes.png" alt="Settings dialog with theme selection and personalized greeting options" width="250"> | <img src="screenshots/diary_system.png" alt="Personal diary system for individual member thoughts and memories" width="250"> |
| **Active Conversations** | **Help Documentation** | **Theme Showcase** |
| <img src="screenshots/active_chat.png" alt="Live conversation showing multiple system members chatting" width="250"> | <img src="screenshots/help_documentation.png" alt="Comprehensive help system with detailed feature documentation" width="250"> | <img src="screenshots/theme_showcase.png" alt="Beautiful ttkbootstrap themes including Criss's custom vapor-dark theme" width="250"> |

## ⚠️ Known Issues

- **Private Members**: Private members cannot have their avatars downloaded via API (this is expected behavior for privacy protection)
- **Sample Members**: Sample members are not added upon developer cleanup (manual setup required for fresh installations)

## 📋 Project Documentation

- **[Installation Guide](INSTALLATION.md)** - Detailed installation instructions for all platforms
- **[Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)** - How to contribute to the project
- **[Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)** - Community guidelines and standards
- **[Security Policy](SECURITY.md)** - Security practices and vulnerability reporting
- **[Development Roadmap](DEVELOPMENT_ROADMAP.md)** - Future features and development plans
- **[Community Disclaimer](DISCLAIMER.md)** - Our inclusive ethos and stance on plural community drama
- **[Third-Party Notices](NOTICES.md)** - Licensing and attribution information

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8 or higher
- pip (Python package installer)

### Installation

1.  **Clone the Repository**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Ktiseos-Nyx/plural_chat.git
    cd plural_chat
    ```

2.  **Install the Application**
    ```bash
    pip install .
    ```
    > **Note:** For development, use `pip install -e .` to install in "editable" mode.

3.  **Run the Application**
    ```bash
    plural-chat
    ```

### 🐧 A Note for Linux Users (`externally-managed-environment`)

Some newer Linux distributions (like Ubuntu 23.04+, Debian 12+, and their derivatives) protect their system Python installation. If you see an `error: externally-managed-environment` when running `pip install`, you **must** use a virtual environment. This is the standard best practice for Python development on all operating systems.

**1. Create and Activate a Virtual Environment**
Before the installation step, create an isolated environment:
```bash
# Inside the plural_chat directory
python3 -m venv .venv

# Activate it (you must do this every time you open a new terminal)
source .venv/bin/activate
```

**2. Install and Run**
Now that your prompt shows `(.venv)`, you can proceed with the installation and running the app as described above:
```bash
pip install .
plural-chat
```
When you are finished, you can leave the environment by typing `deactivate`.

### First Time Setup

1. **Add Members** - Use the Settings → Members tab to add your system members
2. **Set Avatars** - Add avatar images for visual identification
3. **PluralKit Sync** (Optional) - Import your existing PK system data via PK's API or via Json export via pk;export on Discord.
4. **Choose Theme** - Pick from 15+ modern themes in Settings

## 🎯 Proxy Detection

If you've imported from PluralKit or set up proxy tags, the app will automatically detect them:

- Type `member: hello there` → Auto-selects "member" and sends "hello there"
- Visual feedback shows when proxy is detected
- Clean messages without proxy tags in chat history

### Future Foward Issue
Not everyone uses member: proxy - so being that this was developed in less than 12 hours, it'd be amazing if anyone would want to help out in robustish level fix this!

## 🔧 PluralKit Integration

### API Token Setup

1. Get your PK token from [PluralKit Dashboard](https://dash.pluralkit.me/dash/token)
2. Click "PluralKit Sync" in the app
3. Enter your token and test connection
4. Choose "Sync Members" or "Full Import"

### What Gets Imported

- ✅ Member names and display names
- ✅ Pronouns and descriptions  
- ✅ Proxy tags for auto-detection
- ✅ Avatar images (downloaded locally)
- ✅ Member colors and metadata
- ✅ Chat history (if present in export)

## 📁 File Structure

- `app.db` - Application settings and preferences
- `system.db` - Your system's members and chat history  
- `avatars/` - Downloaded avatar images
- `*.json` - Export files for sharing

## 🎨 Themes

Choose from these beautiful themes:
- superhero, darkly, solar, cyborg, vapor
- pulse, flatly, journal, litera, lumen
- minty, morph, sandstone, united, yeti

## 📤 Sharing Systems

**Export your system:**
- Click "Export System" → Save as JSON
- Share file with other plural folks
- Includes members, chat history, and settings

**Import a system:**
- Click "Import System" → Select JSON file
- Supports PluralKit exports (auto-detects and converts)
- Our export format is compatible for re-importing

## 🛠️ Development

### Tech Stack

- **Python 3.8+** - Core language
- **ttkbootstrap** - Modern UI framework
- **SQLite** - Local database
- **Pillow** - Image processing
- **Requests** - HTTP client for PluralKit API
- **aiohttp** - Asynchronous HTTP client
- **aria2p** - High-performance download manager
- **platformdirs** - Cross-platform directory management

### Project Structure

```
plural_chat/
├── main.py                 # Main application
├── database_manager.py     # SQLite database handling
├── pluralkit_api.py       # PK API integration
├── pluralkit_dialog.py    # PK sync UI
├── pk_export_parser.py    # PK export file parser
├── member_manager.py      # Member management UI
├── settings_manager.py    # Settings UI
├── about_dialog.py        # About dialog
├── requirements.txt       # Python dependencies
├── pyproject.toml        # Project configuration
└── LICENSE               # MIT license
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions from the plural community! Whether it's:

- 🐛 Bug reports
- 💡 Feature suggestions  
- 🔧 Code improvements
- 📖 Documentation updates

**Please read our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) and [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) before getting started.**

**Want to see what's coming next?** Check out our [Development Roadmap](DEVELOPMENT_ROADMAP.md) to see planned features and find areas where you can help!

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

For third-party components and attributions, see [NOTICES.md](NOTICES.md).

## 💝 Credits

- **Created by:** Duskfall Portal Crew
- **Inspired by:** The amazing plural community
- **Thanks to:** PluralKit team for the fantastic API
- **UI Framework:** ttkbootstrap developers

## 🔗 Links

- **[GitHub Issues](https://github.com/Ktiseos-Nyx/plural_chat/issues)** - Bug reports and feature requests
- **[GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/Ktiseos-Nyx/plural_chat/discussions)** - Community discussions and Q&A
- **[PluralKit](https://pluralkit.me)** - The bot that inspired this project
- **[ttkbootstrap](https://ttkbootstrap.readthedocs.io)** - Modern tkinter themes
- **[Support us](https://ko-fi.com/duskfallcrew)** - Help keep development going
- **[Ktiseos Nyx Discord](https://discord.gg/HhBSvM9gBY)** - Development & AI Discord (Plural Friendly!/PK Enabled)
- **[Earth & Dusk Media Discord](https://discord.gg/5t2kYxt7An)** - Our Twitch & Media Discord (PK enabled!) **IF YOU ARE NOT INTO AI PLEASE JOIN HERE**

---

*Made with 💜 by and for the plural community*

Commit message:

Update README with support information and project plans
Added support and community links for plural systems and clarified project direction.

README.md, after:

# 🗨️ Plural Chat

A desktop chat application designed specifically for plural systems, featuring PluralKit integration and intelligent proxy detection.

Notice: If you're looking for support and you're a plural system yourself please join our NON ML/AI server that's for plurals! 

https://discord.gg/QCkgPwf7ue

Also: We're working on moving this to electron, because a lot of python is slow with i/o work, and now that Duskfalcrew is on windows --
We're able to service more people both crossplatform and otherwise!

If you're NOT INTO AI and not plural feel free to go to our main E&D server for support here: https://discord.gg/5t2kYxt7An

Duskfallcrew is largely moving away from generative media AI, and so the KNX discord may be merging back with E&D at some stage! 

## 📑 Table of Contents

- [✨ Features](#-features)
- [📸 Screenshots](#-screenshots)
- [⚠️ Known Issues](#️-known-issues)
- [📋 Project Documentation](#-project-documentation)
- [🚀 Quick Start](#-quick-start)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Installation](#installation)
  - [First Time Setup](#first-time-setup)
- [🎯 Proxy Detection](#-proxy-detection)
- [🔧 PluralKit Integration](#-pluralkit-integration)
  - [API Token Setup](#api-token-setup)
  - [What Gets Imported](#what-gets-imported)
- [📁 File Structure](#-file-structure)
- [🎨 Themes](#-themes)
- [📤 Sharing Systems](#-sharing-systems)
- [🛠️ Development](#️-development)
  - [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
  - [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [🤝 Contributing](#-contributing)
- [📄 License](#-license)
- [💝 Credits](#-credits)
- [🔗 Links](#-links)

## ✨ Features

- **🏠 Local Desktop Chat** - Private conversations between system members
- **🔗 PluralKit Integration** - Import members, avatars, and proxy tags from your PK system
- **🎯 Smart Proxy Detection** - Automatic member switching based on proxy patterns
- **💾 SQLite Database** - Fast, reliable local storage
- **🎨 Modern Themes** - 15+ beautiful themes via ttkbootstrap
- **📤 Export/Import** - Share system configurations with other plural folks
- **🖼️ Avatar Support** - Display member avatars in chat
- **📔 Personal Diary** - Private journal system for individual members
- **⚙️ Advanced Settings** - Configurable cache sizes to optimize performance based on system resources
- **🛡️ Enhanced Security** - Improved URL validation and secure file handling
- **🔄 Improved Stability** - Better error handling and retry mechanisms for network operations
- **📱 Cross-Platform Support** - Optimized for macOS, Windows, and Linux including better UI responsiveness

## 📸 Screenshots

| Main Chat Interface | Settings & Custom Themes | Personal Diary System |
| :-----------------: | :----------------------: | :-------------------: |
| <img src="screenshots/main_interface.png" alt="Main chat interface with member list and conversation history" width="250"> | <img src="screenshots/settings_themes.png" alt="Settings dialog with theme selection and personalized greeting options" width="250"> | <img src="screenshots/diary_system.png" alt="Personal diary system for individual member thoughts and memories" width="250"> |
| **Active Conversations** | **Help Documentation** | **Theme Showcase** |
| <img src="screenshots/active_chat.png" alt="Live conversation showing multiple system members chatting" width="250"> | <img src="screenshots/help_documentation.png" alt="Comprehensive help system with detailed feature documentation" width="250"> | <img src="screenshots/theme_showcase.png" alt="Beautiful ttkbootstrap themes including Criss's custom vapor-dark theme" width="250"> |

## ⚠️ Known Issues

- **Private Members**: Private members cannot have their avatars downloaded via API (this is expected behavior for privacy protection)
- **Sample Members**: Sample members are not added upon developer cleanup (manual setup required for fresh installations)

## 📋 Project Documentation

- **[Installation Guide](INSTALLATION.md)** - Detailed installation instructions for all platforms
- **[Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md)** - How to contribute to the project
- **[Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md)** - Community guidelines and standards
- **[Security Policy](SECURITY.md)** - Security practices and vulnerability reporting
- **[Development Roadmap](DEVELOPMENT_ROADMAP.md)** - Future features and development plans
- **[Community Disclaimer](DISCLAIMER.md)** - Our inclusive ethos and stance on plural community drama
- **[Third-Party Notices](NOTICES.md)** - Licensing and attribution information

## 🚀 Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Python 3.8 or higher
- pip (Python package installer)

### Installation

1.  **Clone the Repository**
    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/Ktiseos-Nyx/plural_chat.git
    cd plural_chat
    ```

2.  **Install the Application**
    ```bash
    pip install .
    ```
    > **Note:** For development, use `pip install -e .` to install in "editable" mode.

3.  **Run the Application**
    ```bash
    plural-chat
    ```

### 🐧 A Note for Linux Users (`externally-managed-environment`)

Some newer Linux distributions (like Ubuntu 23.04+, Debian 12+, and their derivatives) protect their system Python installation. If you see an `error: externally-managed-environment` when running `pip install`, you **must** use a virtual environment. This is the standard best practice for Python development on all operating systems.

**1. Create and Activate a Virtual Environment**
Before the installation step, create an isolated environment:
```bash
# Inside the plural_chat directory
python3 -m venv .venv

# Activate it (you must do this every time you open a new terminal)
source .venv/bin/activate
```

**2. Install and Run**
Now that your prompt shows `(.venv)`, you can proceed with the installation and running the app as described above:
```bash
pip install .
plural-chat
```
When you are finished, you can leave the environment by typing `deactivate`.

### First Time Setup

1. **Add Members** - Use the Settings → Members tab to add your system members
2. **Set Avatars** - Add avatar images for visual identification
3. **PluralKit Sync** (Optional) - Import your existing PK system data via PK's API or via Json export via pk;export on Discord.
4. **Choose Theme** - Pick from 15+ modern themes in Settings

## 🎯 Proxy Detection

If you've imported from PluralKit or set up proxy tags, the app will automatically detect them:

- Type `member: hello there` → Auto-selects "member" and sends "hello there"
- Visual feedback shows when proxy is detected
- Clean messages without proxy tags in chat history

### Future Foward Issue
Not everyone uses member: proxy - so being that this was developed in less than 12 hours, it'd be amazing if anyone would want to help out in robustish level fix this!

## 🔧 PluralKit Integration

### API Token Setup

1. Get your PK token from [PluralKit Dashboard](https://dash.pluralkit.me/dash/token)
2. Click "PluralKit Sync" in the app
3. Enter your token and test connection
4. Choose "Sync Members" or "Full Import"

### What Gets Imported

- ✅ Member names and display names
- ✅ Pronouns and descriptions  
- ✅ Proxy tags for auto-detection
- ✅ Avatar images (downloaded locally)
- ✅ Member colors and metadata
- ✅ Chat history (if present in export)

## 📁 File Structure

- `app.db` - Application settings and preferences
- `system.db` - Your system's members and chat history  
- `avatars/` - Downloaded avatar images
- `*.json` - Export files for sharing

## 🎨 Themes

Choose from these beautiful themes:
- superhero, darkly, solar, cyborg, vapor
- pulse, flatly, journal, litera, lumen
- minty, morph, sandstone, united, yeti

## 📤 Sharing Systems

**Export your system:**
- Click "Export System" → Save as JSON
- Share file with other plural folks
- Includes members, chat history, and settings

**Import a system:**
- Click "Import System" → Select JSON file
- Supports PluralKit exports (auto-detects and converts)
- Our export format is compatible for re-importing

## 🛠️ Development

### Tech Stack

- **Python 3.8+** - Core language
- **ttkbootstrap** - Modern UI framework
- **SQLite** - Local database
- **Pillow** - Image processing
- **Requests** - HTTP client for PluralKit API
- **aiohttp** - Asynchronous HTTP client
- **aria2p** - High-performance download manager
- **platformdirs** - Cross-platform directory management

### Project Structure

```
plural_chat/
├── main.py                 # Main application
├── database_manager.py     # SQLite database handling
├── pluralkit_api.py       # PK API integration
├── pluralkit_dialog.py    # PK sync UI
├── pk_export_parser.py    # PK export file parser
├── member_manager.py      # Member management UI
├── settings_manager.py    # Settings UI
├── about_dialog.py        # About dialog
├── requirements.txt       # Python dependencies
├── pyproject.toml        # Project configuration
└── LICENSE               # MIT license
```

## 🤝 Contributing

We welcome contributions from the plural community! Whether it's:

- 🐛 Bug reports
- 💡 Feature suggestions  
- 🔧 Code improvements
- 📖 Documentation updates

**Please read our [Contributing Guide](CONTRIBUTING.md) and [Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md) before getting started.**

**Want to see what's coming next?** Check out our [Development Roadmap](DEVELOPMENT_ROADMAP.md) to see planned features and find areas where you can help!

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

For third-party components and attributions, see [NOTICES.md](NOTICES.md).

## 💝 Credits

- **Created by:** Duskfall Portal Crew
- **Inspired by:** The amazing plural community
- **Thanks to:** PluralKit team for the fantastic API
- **UI Framework:** ttkbootstrap developers

## 🔗 Links

- **[GitHub Issues](https://github.com/Ktiseos-Nyx/plural_chat/issues)** - Bug reports and feature requests
- **[GitHub Discussions](https://github.com/Ktiseos-Nyx/plural_chat/discussions)** - Community discussions and Q&A
- **[PluralKit](https://pluralkit.me)** - The bot that inspired this project
- **[ttkbootstrap](https://ttkbootstrap.readthedocs.io)** - Modern tkinter themes
- **[Support us](https://ko-fi.com/duskfallcrew)** - Help keep development going
- **[Ktiseos Nyx Discord](https://discord.gg/HhBSvM9gBY)** - Development & AI Discord (Plural Friendly!/PK Enabled)
- **[Earth & Dusk Media Discord](https://discord.gg/5t2kYxt7An)** - Our Twitch & Media Discord (PK enabled!) **IF YOU ARE NOT INTO AI PLEASE JOIN HERE**

---

*Made with 💜 by and for the plural community*
